# Installing Targets
Projects typically install some of the library and executable files created during their build process. The [`install`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/install.html#command:install) command provides the `TARGETS` signature for this purpose.

The `TARGETS` keyword is immediately followed by a list of the targets created using [`add_executable`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/add_executable.html#command:add_executable) or [`add_library`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/add_library.html#command:add_library), which are to be installed. One or more files corresponding to each target will be installed.

Files installed with this signature may be divided into categories such as `ARCHIVE`, `LIBRARY`, or `RUNTIME`. These categories are designed to group target files by typical installation destination. The corresponding keyword arguments are optional, but if present, specify that other arguments following them apply only to target files of that type. Target files are categorized as follows:
- **executables -** `RUNTIME`

    Created by [`add_executable`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/add_executable.html#command:add_executable) (.exe on Windows, no extension on UNIX)

- **loadable modules -** `LIBRARY`

    Created by [`add_library`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/add_library.html#command:add_library) with the `MODULE` option (.dll on Windows, .so on UNIX)

- **shared libraries -** `LIBRARY`

    Created by [`add_library`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/add_library.html#command:add_library) with the `SHARED` option on UNIX-like platforms (.so on most UNIX, .dylib on Mac)

- **dynamic-link libraries -** `RUNTIME`

    Created by [`add_library`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/add_library.html#command:add_library) with the `SHARED` option on Windows platforms (.dll)

- **import libraries -** `ARCHIVE`

    A linkable file created by a dynamic-link library that exports symbols (.lib on most Windows, .dll.a on Cygwin and MinGW).

- **static libraries -** `ARCHIVE`

    Created by [`add_library`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/add_library.html#command:add_library) with the `STATIC` option (.lib on Windows, .a on UNIX, Cygwin, and MinGW)

Consider a project that defines an executable, `myExecutable`, which links to a shared library `mySharedLib`. It also provides a static library `myStaticLib` and a plugin module to the executable called `myPlugin` that also links to the shared library. The executable, static library, and plugin file may be installed individually using the commands
```cmake
install(TARGETS myExecutable DESTINATION bin)
install(TARGETS myStaticLib DESTINATION lib/myproject)
install(TARGETS myPlugin DESTINATION lib)
```

The executable will not be able to run from the installed location until the shared library to it links to is also installed. Installation of the library requires a bit more care in order to support all platforms. It must be installed in a location searched by the dynamic linker on each platform. On UNIX-like platforms, the library is typically installed to `lib`, while on Windows it should be placed next to the executable in `bin`. An additional challenge is that the import library associated with the shared library on Windows should be treated like the static library, and installed to `lib/myproject`. In other words, we have three different kinds of files created with a single target name that must be installed to three different destinations! Fortunately, this problem can be solved using the category keyword arguments. The shared library may be installed using the command:
```cmake
install(TARGETS mySharedLib
        RUNTIME DESTINATION bin
        LIBRARY DESTINATION lib
        ARCHIVE DESTINATION lib/myproject)
```

This tells CMake that the `RUNTIME` file (.dll) should be installed to `bin`, the `LIBRARY` file (.so) should be installed to `lib`, and the `ARCHIVE` (.lib) file should be installed to `lib/myproject`. On UNIX, the `LIBRARY` file will be installed; on Windows, the `RUNTIME` and `ARCHIVE` files will be installed.

If the above sample project is to be packaged into separate run time and development components, we must assign the appropriate component to each target file installed. The executable, shared library, and plugin are required in order to run the application, so they belong in a `Runtime` component. Meanwhile, the import library (corresponding to the shared library on Windows) and the static library are only required to develop extensions to the application, and therefore belong in a `Development` component.

Component assignments may be specified by adding the `COMPONENT` argument to each of the commands above. You may also combine all of the installation rules into a single command invocation, which is equivalent to all of the above commands with components added. The files generated by each target are installed using the rule for their category.
```cmake
install(TARGETS myExecutable mySharedLib myStaticLib myPlugin
        RUNTIME DESTINATION bin           COMPONENT Runtime
        LIBRARY DESTINATION lib           COMPONENT Runtime
        ARCHIVE DESTINATION lib/myproject COMPONENT Development)
```

Either `NAMELINK_ONLY` or `NAMELINK_SKIP` may be specified as a `LIBRARY` option. On some platforms, a versioned shared library has a symbolic link such as
```cmake
lib<name>.so -> lib<name>.so.1
```

where `lib<name>.so.1` is the soname of the library, and `lib<name>.so` is a “namelink” that helps linkers to find the library when given `-l<name>`. The `NAMELINK_ONLY` option results in installation of only the namelink when a library target is installed. The `NAMELINK_SKIP` option causes installation of library files other than the namelink when a library target is installed. When neither option is given, both portions are installed. On platforms where versioned shared libraries do not have namelinks, or when a library is not versioned, the `NAMELINK_SKIP` option installs the library and the `NAMELINK_ONLY` option installs nothing. See the [`VERSION`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_tgt/VERSION.html#prop_tgt:VERSION) and [`SOVERSION`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_tgt/SOVERSION.html#prop_tgt:SOVERSION) target properties for details on creating versioned, shared libraries.
